Discription of playback behaviour
First Draft by Avneesh Dated: May 22 2007


1. Playback behaviour in StripManager with respect to keyboard navigation.
1.1. A phrase will play by itself whenever keyboard focus arrives on it through StripManager navigation commands.
List of commands are:
1.1.1. Right Arrow for next phrase.
1.1.2. Left Arrow for prev phrase
1.1.3. Down Arrow for first phrase of next section.
1.1.4. Up Arrow for first phrase of prev section.
1.1.5. Home Key for first phrase in current section.
1.1.6. End Key for last phrase in current section.
1.1.7. Ctrl + Home for first phrase in project.
1.1.8. Ctrl + End for last phrase in project.
1.1.9. PageUp for  neareast phrase marked with page number in upward direction.
1.1.10 PageDown for nearest phrase marked with page number in downward direction.
1.1.11. For multiple selection Shift key should be used with all of above listed Keyboard shortcuts.

Remark: Left arrow and right arrow should not jump section e.g. navigation with right key should stop when  last phrase of current section is reached.


1.2. playback can be started by user in two modes by using playback commands. 
1.2.1. Play modes with Keyboard shortcuts are:
1.2.1.1. Space for play current phrase selection.
1.2.1.2. Ctrl + Space for play all from current phrase.

1.2.2. Further behavioural discription of two playback modes:
1.2.2.1. There should be direct transition from Play Selection mode to Play all mode and vice-versa without going through cycle of pause or stop i.e. if playback in one mode is going on, it is automatically stopped when command of playing in different playback mode is given.
1.2.2.2.  While in playing state, all keyboard navigation command should work without breaking of playback or playback mode.
1.2.2.3. While in paused or stopped state, all keyboard navigation commands should start playback in play single phrase mode.


1.3. Audio Editing during playback.
1.3.1.  Context menu and drop down menu should be Conditionally  visible ( conditions should be other than playback states )  during playback 
1.3.2.  On giving Editing command playback should stop/pause and resume conditionally ( depending on requirements of command) after command execution is complete 
E.g. playback behaviour of quick split and split.


1.4. Playback behaviour during multiple selection.
1.4.1. Newly selected phrase should play on recieving focus by strip manager selection shortcut or atleast provide a short playback preview.
1.4.2. Newly deselected phrase should also play on StripManager deselecting shortcut or atleast provide a small playback preview.



2. behaviour of playback with respect of  mouse use in strip manager.
Self triggered playback is not required on selecting  phrases with mouse. This should be done by giving playback commands.
2.1. Mouse commands for playback.
2.1.1. Double click for play curren phrase.
2.1.2. Play selection command from context menu for playing selection 
2.1.3. Play button from transport bar for play all.

Remark: with mouse also there should be direct transition between playback modes without going through commands like pause or stop.


2.2. Some suggestions for selection in strip manager using mouse:
2.2.1. Single click for selecting single phrase.
2.2.2. Horizontal dragging of mouse for selecting series of phrases.
2.2.3. Vertical dragging of mouse for spanning selection to next or prev section
This selection behaviour is similar to that used in text editors.


3. Playback behaviour in TOC view with respect to keyboard.
3.1. There is no self triggering of playback required in  TOC view.
3.2. Playback modes are same as in strip manager with same shortcut keys. 

Listed in section 1.2.1.

Remark: There is only one difference between playback behaviour in TOC view in contrast with strip manager i.e. the selection in TOC view has least count of a section while selection in strip manager has least count of a phrase.


4. Playback in TOC view with respect to mouse.
4.1. Mouse playback commands:
4.1.1. For playing current selection play selection command from context menu can be used.
4.1.2. For play all, play button on transport bar may be used.
