Obi Transport bar specification
Julien Quint (ed.), Marisa DeMeglio, Avneesh Singh
$Id$


The transport bar includes three components:

  1. time display (in the book or in the audio block)
  2. transport buttons and controls (play, stop, record, forward, etc.)
  3. VU-meter

Having all components in the same window helps with screen reader as focus
does not have to move around. One exception can be made for the VU meter:
its graphical display is of no importance to a screen reader, so it can be
displayed separately; however, its accessible counterpart is part of the
transport bar (see VU-meter below.)


0. Selection and current time highlighting

The transport bar introduces the notion of current time, i.e. the position
at which the player is, relative to the beginning of the book or the
selection. The phrase or section in which the player currently is needs to
be highlighted to give feedback to the user. We have to take into account
what happens to the selection after we are done playing.


1. Time display

The three units are the book, the section and the phrase (audio block.) For
simplification purposes, we will ignore phrases and sections as such and
make a distinction between the whole book and the current selection.
Selecting a phrase or a section allows to play only this phrase or this
section.

This leads to the distinction of two play modes: "play continuously" and
"play selection." In the former case, play goes through all of the phrases
of the books and stops when the end of the last phrase of the book is
reached. In the latter case, only selected phrases are played (in book
order) and playback stops at the end of the last selected phrase.

We need to introduce the notion of a current time position. This is either
the current time when playing, recording, or after having paused. The
current position is shown in a time display. There is also a notion of
current phrase, which is highlighted in the strip view if the strip view has
the focus, or whose parent section is highlighted in the TOC view if the TOC
view has focus. When playing continuously, the highlighting actually
modifies the selection; the currently playing phrase is selected (and its
parent section in the TOC view.) When playing a selection, the highlighting
is different from the selection hightlighting as playing does not modify the
selection (so that it is easy to play the selection again, for instance.)

A simple, unsurprising time display could follow the example set by CD
players (which most users would be familiar with): the phrase is considered
like a "track" of a CD, then the display always shows the current time in
the current phrase. Clicking (or using a shortcut key) the display can
display the remaining time in the selection (if any), then in the book, then
back to the regular display. Double-clicking the display could allow the user
to set a time either in the selection or the book.


2. Buttons and controls

Easy access to playing, navigating and recording. Must make the life of the
user easier. Importantly for accessibility, all controls must be accessible
through the keyboard. Button controls are also reflected in a "Transport" or
"Play" menu.

List of buttons:

  * Play/pause: this is the most important button, and is actually a little
  complicated. When the player is stopped or paused, it behaves as "Play",
  when the player is playing, it behaves as "Pause." Clicking "Play" once
  plays from the current position to the end of the book (play
  continuously.) Double-clicking "Play" plays only to the end of the
  selection (if any) and pauses, setting the current position to the beginning
  of the following phrase. We could also have a drop-down for choosing the
  mode of playback?
  
  * Stop: immediately stop playing, move the current time position back to
  the beginning of the phrase or the beginning of the book depending on what
  was playing.

  * Record: starts listening or recording. If single-clicking, the recorder
  is started in "listening mode"; actual recording happens once the play
  button is pressed. If double-clicking, recording starts at once. (This can
  be complemented/replaced by a drop-down menu.) When recording, play becomes
  pause and can be used to pause and resume recording (when pausing, the
  recorder is in a listening state; when resuming, a new phrase is created.)
  The stop button stops the recording. Record is only available when the
  player is stopped, and a strip or an audio block is selected. If a phrase
  is selected, the recorded phrases are added after the selected phrase. If
  a section is selected, the new phrases are appended to the existing
  phrases of the section.

  Marking phrases while recording: we can use the forward buttons. "Forward
  one phrase" can create a new phrase; "next section" creates a new section
  (if appending) or splits the section (if inserting; if split section is
  not implemented yet, then creating a new section only happens when
  appending.) A new page can automatically be added by double-clicking the
  "Forward one phrase" button (this can be done once autonumbering is
  implemented.)

  * Back one phrase: goes back one phrase. If the current position is
  further than the beginning of the phrase (meaning a small amount of time
  after the beginning), then goes back to the beginning. If the current
  position is at the beginning of a phrase, goes to the beginning of the
  previous phrase. Section boundaries can be skipped; cannot go further than
  the first phrase of the first section. When the player is stopped, there
  is no effect. When the player is paused, the change in position is
  mirrored in the time display and the currently active view (strips or
  TOC.) When the player is playing, playback skips directly to the new
  point.

  * Back one section: goes back one section; i.e. the beginning of the first
  phrase of the section. Sections with no audio are skipped. See above for
  details.

  * Forward one phrase: goes forward one phrase, i.e. to the beginning of
  the next phrase. Otherwise, same as back.

  * Forward one section: goes forward one section, i.e. to the beginning of
  the first phrase of the next section that has audio content.

Time slider: for time navigation within a phrase, we can use a slider rather
than a complicated set of buttons. Using the slider when the player is
stopped has no effect. When the player is paused, the time display is
updated (like using the back/forward buttons.) When the player is playing,
using the slider plays short snippets of sound while the slider is being
moved for the user to get audio feedback.

One problem to solve: is the slider limited to phrase-only or book-only? Are
there two sliders?


3. VU-meter

The VU-meter should be made smaller and integrated into the transport
bar/time display. Animation should be smoother (see how to solve that.)

When playing, the VU-meter should reflect the volume of the audio playing.
When recording/listening, the VU-meter should reflect the volume of the
incoming audio. It should show the highest value, with a flag when an
overload happens; and the display for this value must be resettable.


4. Architecture notes



5. Task list
