Obi's Recording behaviour 
first draft by Avneesh on October 9, 2007.
Updated after contrubutions on October 22, 2007


Recording behaviour is intended to be straight forward and with simple punch in capabilities.

behaviour:
1. UnMutable mode 
2. Mutable mode


1. UnMutable mode.
It is simple recording in which newly recorded content is appended to list of phrases.
1.1. If a audio block in strip manager is selected,:
1.1.1. For null audio block: recording is filled in null audio block and consequtive new phrases  are appended to it.
 1.1.2. If selected audio block contains audio:  recording appends  new audio blocks to currently selected Audio block.

1.2. If a strip in strip manager is selected, recording appends audio blocks to last non null audio block in that strip.
1.3. If a section in tree view is selected, recording appends audio blocks to last non null audio block at the same level. Same as 1.2.
1.4. If the dummy section is selected in the TOC view, then a new
section is created after the dummy section (i.e. as the first
subsection) and recording starts immediatly in this section. In this
manner, the user can start recording straight away from a new empty
project.
1.5 If nothing at all is selected, a new section is created at the
top-level and at the end of the project and recording starts in this
section.

Remark: 1.5. is more suitable for mouse users.


2. Mutable  mode:
This mode allows user to perform punch in operations in addition to default append recording behaviour.
 Behaviour is as follows:
2.1.  If Playback is stopped and a phrase block, a strip or a section are selected, or nothing
is selected, the behavior is as defined in points 1.1 to 1.5 above
(same as "append")

2.2. If a a timepoint inside phrase is selected using playback pause or using visual cursor on  wave form: 
2.2.1. If insert/Replace  toggle key is at insert the behavior is  like "insert": the audio block is split and newly recorded blocks are inserted between the two split blocks.
2.2.2. If insert/replace toggle key  is on replace, all the phrases after selection point in the strip are deleted and are replaced by ongoing  recording phrases.

2.3. If a portion of audio is selected then the portion
before and after the selection are split, and the selected part is
replaced by new block(s) introduced by recording. (same as "overwrite")



