Obi release notes
$Id$


These release notes describe Obi version 0.8.3.0, released 2007-03-xx. The
goal of this document is to list all of the features of the latest version
of Obi, for developers, testers and users. See appendix C for the changelog.

NOTE TO TESTERS: please verify that every statement in this document is true
with regard to the distributed version of Obi.


1 Obi projects

  1.1 Obi can only open and save Obi projects, named with a .xuk extension.
  Obi projects for this version are identified by the version string
  "obi-xuk-009".

  1.2 Obi can export projects to DAISY ANSI/NISO Z39.86-2005 format.

  1.3 Only one project at a time can be open. Opening another project or
  creating a new project closes a previously open project.

  1.4 The clipboard (see below) is cleared when a project is closed, so that
  it is not possible to cut and paste between different projects.

  1.5 A project with modifications is never closed without prompting the
  user for saving changes, discarding them, or canceling the operation
  leading to closing the project.

  1.6 The title bar shows the title of the project currently open, followed
  by a star if it has unsaved modifications, and the name of the
  application. If no project is open only the name of the application is
  shown.

  1.7 Obi stores simple metadata about projects. This metadata is used to
  create DAISY metadata automatically on export. To view or modify the
  metadata for a project, use Edit > Metadata (Alt+M).

    1.7.1 "Title" is the title of the project. The title is chosen when
    creating the project but can be changed at any time.

    1.7.2 "Narrator" is the name of the person(s) doing the narration for
    this project. It defaults to the user name in the user profile.

    1.7.3 "Publisher" is the user's publisher. It defaults to the publisher
    name in the user profile.

    1.7.4 "Identifier" is a unique identifier for the project. It is
    generated from the template set in the project preferences.

    1.7.5 "Language" is the (main) language of the project. It defaults to
    the user language set in the user profile. The language can be chosen
    from a list.

    1.7.6 Metadata editing is currently NOT undoable.

  1.8 The project can be "touched" to simulate making a change (i.e. forcing
  the project to be resaved.) This also forced the views to be redrawn so it
  is useful when rendering bugs happen. The shortcut is F5, which is usually
  used for "refresh" operations in other applications. This was initially
  intended for debugging purposes but it should probably stay in the regular
  version.

2 The TOC panel

  2.1 The TOC panel shows on the left-hand side of the project panel when a
  project is open. It can be either shown or hidden but is always shown when
  a project is open or created.

  2.2 The TOC panel shows the name of every section. The sections are
  organized in a hierarchical way (i.e. section, sub-section, etc.) and
  shown using a tree widget where every tree node corresponds to one
  section. The indenting of a node shows the section level. Nodes can be
  collapsed and expanded. Every section has a corresponding strip in the
  strip manager (see below) in the same order than in the tree.

  2.3 A used section shows in blue; an unused section shows is grayed-out.
  An unused section will not be exported to a DAISY book, and will not be
  played when the whole book plays.
  [NOTE: when selected, sections appear the same whether they are used or
  unused. This is a feature of the tree widget]

  2.4 A section can be selected in the TOC panel by clicking it. It shows in
  white with a blue background.

  2.5 Operations on a section apply to all sub-sections of this section. For
  instance, deleting a section will delete all its sub-sections.

  2.6 New sections can be created by adding a sibling section (section of
  the same level) or a child section (sub-section.)

    2.6.1 Inserting a sibling section (TOC > Insert section, or Ctrl+A)
    inserts a new section immediately before and with the same level as the
    selected section, or appends a top-level section if no section is
    selected.

    2.6.2 Adding a child section (TOC > Add sub-section, or Ctrl+B) appends
    a new section under the currently selected section.
    [NOTE: there is an inconsistency between the two operations; the
    previous should probably append just like this one.]

    2.6.3 When a new section is created, it is given a default title. It is
    also immediately selected and given the focus for retitling.

  2.7 A selected section can be retitled (TOC > Rename section, or F2). The
  name cannot be the empty string.

  2.8 A selected section level can change by moving it in or out.

    2.8.1 Moving a section out (TOC > Move section out, or Ctrl+Shift+Left)
    reduces its level by one. Instead of being a child of its parent, it
    becomes its sibling. A top-level section cannot be moved out.

    2.8.2 Moving a section in (TOC > Move section in, or Ctrl+Shift+Right)
    increases its level by one. It becomes a child of its preceding sibling.
    A section which is the first child of its parent cannot be moved in.

  2.9 A selected section can be cut (Edit > Cut section, or Ctrl+X). It is
  deleted from the project and placed in the clipboard for pasting.

  2.10 A selected section can be copied (Edit > Copy section, or Ctrl+C). It
  is placed on the clipboard for pasting.

  2.11 When the clipboard contains a section and a section is selected, then
  the section in the clipboard can be pasted as a new child of the selected
  section (Edit > Paste section, or Ctrl+V). The clipboard is unchanged, so
  that the same section can be pasted again.
  [NOTE: this should change to insert before behavior.]

  2.12 A selected section can be deleted (Edit > Delete section, or Del).

  2.13 A selected section can be marked as used or unused (TOC > Mark
  section as used / TOC > Mark section as unused, or Ctrl+K). All operations
  on section are disabled for unused sections, except marking them as used
  or showing them in the strip manager.
  [NOTE: this is not implemented correctly and consistently and will change
  soon.]

  2.14 A selected section can be shown in the strip manager (TOC > Show in
  strip view, or Alt+V). The corresponding strip is selected.

  2.15 Keyboard navigation is available in the TOC panel when it has focus.
  The behavior of the keyboard in this view is the one that is implemeted by
  the tree widget in Windows.


3 The strip view

  3.1 The strip view shows on the right-hand side of the project panel. It
  cannot be hidden but can be resized with regards to the TOC view using the
  narrow strip between the TOC view and the strip view.

  3.2 The strip view shows the full contents of the project in a flat way,
  i.e. sections are not indented to show hierarchy but remain flat as this
  is how the contents will be presented to the readers later.

    3.2.1 Section strips are containers for every section in the project.
    There is a one-to-one correspondance between strips and sections. A
    strip has a name which is the same as the section title; changing one
    automatically changes the other. A section strip can be empty (it has no
    content) or contain one or more audio blocks.

    3.2.2 Audio blocks are units of audio that are arranged in a section
    strip. A block represents a phrase in the book, in the sense of local
    navigation (i.e. navigation by phrase.) Blocks are aligned inside a
    section strip. They will play in the order that they are arranged in.
    Audio blocks are unnamed (they all say "Audio") and display the length
    of the phrase that they correspond to in seconds.

    3.2.3 Annotations are (short) text annotations that can be associated
    with phrases at production time (they are not exported to the DAISY book
    but are saved in the project) such as "Fix this" or "Zaboom!"
    Annotations are represented in parallel with audio blocks; vertical
    alignment shows which block they belong to.
    <LNN>Annotations could IMO have less height, they look like they would 
    allow at least 2 lines of text and still have plenty of margin on my 
    screen </LNN>

    3.2.4 Page numbers can be set on audio blocks to mark pages in the DAISY
    book. They are displayed in the audio block on which they are set.

  3.3 Strips and blocks can be selected in the strip view.

    3.3.1 Annotations are not selectable, only the block that they are
    aligned with. Page numbers are not selectable either.

    3.3.2 Selecting an item in the strip view deselects any selected item in
    the TOC view, or any previously selected item in the strip view.
    <LNN> Not entirely true, as the TOC retains it's focus on a section </LNN>

    3.3.3 An item can be selected by clicking it, i.e. inside a section
    strip (but outside of a block) or inside an audio block. Selection can
    change with the transport bar as well (see below.)
    <LNN> Instead of "An item...", we might want to say "A strip or phrase", 
    since annotations can't be selected, and those look like items on the 
    screen. </LNN>
    
    3.3.4 Contrary to the TOC view, selecting a strip selects only the
    corresponding section and no subsection. See "delete strip" below for
    further effects.

    3.3.5 Clicking outside strips deselects everything.
    <LNN> See bug concerning editing of annotations. </LNN>

  3.4 Operations on section strips

    3.4.1 Add strip (Ctrl+A) adds a new strip. The new strip corresponds to
    a new section in the TOC; it is the first sibling of the section
    corresponding to the selected strip. When the strip is added, its title
    is selected and can be immediately edited (see rename strip below.)
    <LNN> We are still doing "insert after" in this release?</LNN>

    3.4.2 Rename strip (F2) allows to change the title of the selected strip
    and of its corresponding section. See "rename section".
    <LNN> Press enter to exit editing mode, or suffer dire strangeness! ;-D
    </LNN>

    3.4.3 Cut strip (Ctrl+X) deletes the selected strip and places it in the
    clipboard. See the note about deleting strips below.

    3.4.4 Copy strip (Ctrl+C) places the selected strip in the clipboard.
    <LNN> Places a _copy of_ the selected strip in the clipboard?</LNN>

    3.4.5 Paste strip (Ctrl+V) pastes the strip in the clipboard as the last
    child of the section corresponding to the selected strip, or as the last
    top-level section if nothing is selected.

    3.4.6 Delete strip (Del) deletes the selected strip and the
    corresponding section. Child sections are not deleted and are reattached
    as children of the deleted section's parent.

    3.4.7 Show in TOC view (Alt+V) selects the selected strip's section in
    the TOC view.

    [NOTE: Mark strip as used/unused will be removed in the next release;
    please ignore this item.]

  3.5 Operations on audio blocks

    3.5.1 Import audio file (Ctrl+I) lets the use select an audio file
    (currently only the uncompressed RIFF/WAVE format is supported, usually
    these files are named with a .wav extension) and create a phrase from
    it. The phrase is inserted before the selected block or at the end of
    the selected strip. For convenience, several files can be selected at
    one, and as many blocks are created.
    <LNN> "at one" should likely be "at once" or "as one operation"?</LNN>

    3.5.2 Split audio block (Ctrl+P) splits the currently selected audio
    block in two blocks. This command brings up the split dialog whose
    function is to determine where the split point occurs. When the dialog
    is closed by pressing "split", a new block is added after the original
    block with the audio from the split point, while the original block's
    audio now only contains audio up to the split point.

      3.5.2.1 The "play" button plays the audio so that the split point can
      be determined. When playing, the button becomes "pause". Pausing
      playback then sets the split point to the point where paused occurred.

      3.5.2.2 The "preview" button plays the audio for 3 seconds from the
      split time without changing it, in order to preview how the split
      phrase will begin. When previewing, the button becomes "back" which
      restarts previewing from the split time; the "play" button also
      becomes "pause" which allows to modify the split as described above.

      3.5.2.3 The split time can be edited to be set manually.
      <LNN> Mention format here? </LNN>

      3.5.2.4 The navigate box allows to rewind and forward while playing in
      order to find the split point in a long phrase or fine tune the split
      position. The step size in seconds text box can be modified with the +
      and - buttons to change the step from a small to larger increments.

      3.5.2.5 When the split time has been chosen, press "split" to actually
      split the phrase. Pressing this button while playing will split at the
      playing time.

      3.5.2.6 Splitting can be cancelled by pressing the "stop/close"
      button.

    [NOTE: the split dialog needs a makeover]

    3.5.3 Quick split audio block (Ctrl+Shift+P) splits the currently
    selected audio block in two blocks without going through the split
    dialog. The split point is determined from the current playing time or
    paused time.

    3.5.4 Apply phrase detection (Ctrl+H) splits the selected audio block
    into as many phrases as it contains. There are three parameters to
    phrase detection:

      3.5.4.1 Silence threshold sets the noise level in the audio. This
      value is computed automatically from a reference silence file which
      should be recorded in the same conditions as the audio to apply
      sentence detection on. At this point, the silent asset must be the
      first audio block in the project (it is useful to mark it as unused to
      not have leading silence in the book.) The value can be modified if
      the results are unsatisfactory.

      3.5.4.2 Gap between sentences sets the minimum amount in milliseconds
      for a stretch of silence to be considered a gap between sentences. The
      default value is 500ms (half a second.)

      3.5.4.3 Leading silence is the amoun in milliseconds of silence that
      should be kept at the beginning of every phrase. The default value is
      100ms. The rest of the gap stays as trailing silence in the previous
      phrase.

    Note that sentence detection can take a bit of time so please be
    patient.

    3.5.5 Merge with next audio block (Ctrl+M) merges the selected audio
    block with the next one in the strip. The audio from the two blocks is
    concatenated together.
    <LNN> This functionality is currently broken, shortcut- as well as menu-
    activated. </LNN>

    3.5.6 Move audio block backward (Ctrl+Right) or forward (Ctrl+Left)
    moves the selected audio block in the corresponding direction inside the
    strip (i.e. switch place with the previous or next one.)
    <LNN> Shortcut keys not currently functional. </LNN>

    3.5.7 Cut audio block (Ctrl+X) deletes the selected audio block and
    places it in the clipboard.

    3.5.8 Copy audio block (Ctrl+C) places the selected audio block in the
    clipboard.

    3.5.9 Paste audio block (Ctrl+V) pastes the audio block in the clipboard
    before the selected audio block, or at the end of the selected strip.

    3.5.10 Delete audio block (Del) deletes the selected audio block from
    its strip.

    3.5.11 Mark audio block as used/unused (Ctrl+K) toggles the used state
    of the selected audio block (gray is unused, pink is used.) Unused
    blocks will not play when playing back the whole project.

    [NOTE: Insert empty audio block will be removed in the next release;
    please ignore this item.]

  3.6 Operations on annotations

    3.6.1 Edit annotation (F2) adds or modifies the annotation for an audio
    block (displayed in the blue block above.)

    3.6.2 Remove annotation (Ctrl+Shift+Del) removes the annotation on the
    block.

  3.7 Pages are broken and must be fixed soon. Page numbers will be set
  automatically; page numbering will start from 1 and increase by 1 for
  every page.

  3.8 Keyboard navigation is broken and must be fixed soon. Arrow keys will
  allow movement between strips (up/down) and blocks (left/right.)


4 The transport bar and VU meter; playing and recording audio

  4.1 The transport bar is shown in the bottom of the window when a project
  is open. It is used to play, record and navigate in the audio of the book.

  4.2 The transport bar has buttons controlling playback and recording. All
  of these buttons are also replicated in the transport menu (see below.)
  Buttons are presented in logical order but are layed out differently in
  the application.
  [NOTE: selection handling in playback is currently very flimsy, and
  playback may sometime start from an unexpected block. Please file bug
  reports to help fix this.]

    4.2.1 The play/pause button: when playback is stopped, pressing play
    will start playing the whole project (skipping unused blocks and
    sections) from the selected block, or the first used block if none is
    selected. When playing, the button changes to pause; pressing it halts
    playback to be resumed by pressing play again. When playing and reaching
    the end of a block, the next used block is immediately until the end of
    the project (i.e. the last used block in the project) or user
    interruption. When moving to a new block, the new block gets selected.
    [NOTE: the play/pause button will be split into a play and a pause
    button because of the problem with pausing when playing at a faster
    rate.]
    </LNN> The functionality described here is "Play all", does play button 
    always behave like this? </LNN>

    4.2.2 The stop button: when playing or paused, pressing the stop button
    stops playback and revert the selection to what it was when playback
    started. When stopped, pressing the stop button again deselects
    everything (one use for this is to press stop twice then play to start
    playing again from the beginning of the project.)

    4.2.3 The next phrase button moves the selection to the next used audio
    block in the project (it can skip section strip boundaries) and resume
    playing if it was. If playback was stopped, it starts just like pressing
    the play button. There is no effect if nothing is selected.
    <LNN> I dislike the feel of this. I would prefer playback not to start 
    if it was not active. This is ofc a matter of opinion. </LNN>

    4.2.4 The next section button moves the selection to the first used
    audio block of the first following used section that has used phrases.
    <LNN> For consistancy, this ought also to start playback if "next phrase" 
    does. </LNN>

    4.2.5 The previous phrase button moves the selection to the first
    preceding used audio block or to the beginning of the currently selected
    block. If playback went past the very beginning of the audio for this
    block, "previous phrase" will move back to the beginning of the block;
    otherwise, it will move to the previous one.

    4.2.6 The previous section button moves to the first used phrase of the
    current section if playback went past the very beginning of the audio
    for this section; otherwise, to the first used phrase of the first
    preceding section that has used phrases.

    4.2.7 The fast forward button changes the playback rate for the audio.
    It also starts the playback if stopped or paused. There are several
    playback rates (x2, x4, x8) and clicking several times on the playback
    rate button will cycle through these rates.
    [NOTE: unfortunately, when playing fast forward, the play button is set
    to resume playback at the normal rate so it is not possible to pause
    while playing faster; this will be solved soon by separating the play
    and pause buttons.]

    4.2.8 The rewind button behaves like fast forward except that it plays
    backward.
    <LNN> It traverses backwards, but plays audio chunks forwards. </LNN>

    4.2.9 The record button opens the record dialog and allows live audio
    recording. See below for a description of the record dialog.

  4.3 The transport bar plays the whole project; but it is also possible to
  play only a single block (including unused blocks) or a single section by
  double-clicking it in the strip view. There are also corresponding menu
  options in the transport menu.

  4.4 The transport bar displays the current time in playback. It has four
  different modes. In "elapsed" mode, the timer increases every second; in
  "remaining" modes it decreases. The value display is always positive or
  zero. The format of the display is "hh:mm:ss" (hours, minutes and
  seconds.)

    4.4.1 "elapsed" shows the elapsed time in the current phrase. Every time
    a new phrase plays, it is reset to zero.

    4.4.2 "elapsed (total)" shows the elapsed time in the project (not
    including unused items) where zero is the start of the first used phrase
    in the book.

    4.4.3 "remaining" shows the remaining time in the current phrase. Every
    time a new phrase plays, it is reset to the length of the phrase.

    4.4.4 "remaining (total)" shows the remaining time in the project (not
    including unused items.)

  4.5 The transport bar has a text VU meter than can be captured by screen
  readers (for instance.) The "left" and "right" boxes show the current
  value of the input or output in the respective channel (only left shows a
  value when playing monophonic sound.) When a channel overloads, the value
  is "stuck" so that it can be seen that an overload occurred; the reset
  button can be used to reset the value in both channels.

  4.6 The record dialog appears when the record button is pressed. To
  record, a strip must be selected (then the recorded audio is appended to
  the strip) or a block must be selected (then the recorded audio is
  inserted before this block.)

    4.6.1 When the record button is pressed, the record dialog appears. It
    is in listening mode so that the user can try the levels (using the
    graphical VU meter for instance.) Obi has no facility to set the input
    level from the input device, so an external mixer such as the default
    one in Windows XP should be used instead.
    <LNN> The term "record button" is used in this paragraph as well as the 
    next, with 2 entirely different objects being referred. Might cause 
    confusion? </LNN>

    4.6.2 The record button actually start recording. When recording start,
    this button becomes "pause" to go back to listening mode. When
    recording, new blocks appear and their time gets updated.
    [NOTE: the new blocks show up in purple because they are created empty
    (purple is the color of empty blocks.) They should become pink once they
    actually have data. Pressing F5 solves this issue right now.]

    4.6.3 The "stop/close" button stops recording or listening and closes
    the dialog.

    4.6.4 The record dialog also has a text VU meter similar to the one in
    the transport bar.

  [NOTE: the page mark button creates a new block and adds a page mark; the
  phrase mark button creates a new block and continues recording but those
  are not really working right now.]

  4.7 The transport menu has all the options corresponding to the transport
  bar buttons (play, next phrase, etc.) "Play all" is the equivalent of the
  play button, with "play" the equivalent of double-clicking a block or
  section strip.
  [NOTE: "play all" will be renamed "play" and "play" will become "play
  selection".]

  4.8 The graphical VU meter can be shown or hidden through the transport
  menu's "Show/hide VU meter" (Ctrl+U) item.


5 User settings and help

  5.1 The current help file for Obi is badly out-of-date so this file
  provides some more current info.

  5.2 User settings provide default information for project metadata.
  Initial values are obtained from the OS (user name and preferred language)
  or defaulted (user organization.) These values can be changed through
  Tools > User profile, or Alt+U, and persist on the user's file system.

  5.3 Project preferences (Tools > Project preferences, or Alt+P) set
  default paths for projects and the identifier template.

    5.3.1 The identifier template is used to generate a project identifier
    randomly when a new project is created. The character "#" in the
    template is replaced by a digit (0 through 9), so for instance the
    default template "obi_####" produces identifiers such as "obi_7483".

    5.3.2 The default projects directory is the default location for
    creating, opening and saving projects. All these operations allow the
    user to change to a different directory.

    5.3.3 The default export directory is the default location for exporting
    projects to DAISY 3 books. This location can be changed while exporting.

    5.3.4 The "open last project when starting Obi" option causes Obi to
    automatically open the last project that was open (if it can be found)
    when Obi launches. It is unchecked by default.

  5.4 Audio preferences (Tools > Audio preferences, or Alt+A) set preferred
  audio devices for playing and recording, and default settings for
  recording.

    5.4.1 The input device is chosen from a list of available devices. If
    the preferred device is not available (for instance an external device
    which was unplugged) the first available one is chose.

    5.4.2 The output device is chosen similarly.

    5.4.3 The default sample rate is the one used when recording audio.

    5.4.4 The default channels number (1 is mono, 2 is stereo) is the one
    used when recording audio.


6 Clipboard and undo/redo

  6.1 The clipboard contains a single object (section, strip or block) at a
  given time. It is the only object available for pasting. Cutting or
  copying an object replaces the previous one in the clipboard. The previous
  is object is restored when undoing the cut or copy operation.

  6.2 Cut, copy and delete operations are available depending on the object
  selected. Paste is available when an object is in the clipboard and the
  right context is present, i.e. a block can be pasted only when a strip or
  another block is selected (paste at the end of the strip or before the
  selected block, respectively.)

  6.3 The undo stack maintains the list of all modifications to the project
  since the last time that it was saved. All operations in Obi can be
  undone; undoing all operations revert the project to its unsaved state.

  6.4 The redo stack maintains the list of all modifications to the project
  that have been undone until a new operation is added to the undo stack.

  6.5 Saving the project clears both undo and redo stacks. This has to do
  with the way that audio data is committed to disk when saving the project;
  in the future, there will be a separate audio clean-up operation that will
  allow to keep the undo stack after saving (and possibly save it in the
  project as well.)


Appendix A - Missing features for version 1.0 (unsorted)

  A.1 Cut/copy/paste text from annotation is not available.
  [NOTE: Actually it is, it interacts with the normal windows clipboard, as
  implemented by the text box widget. A better integration with Obi's
  clipboard is necessary though.]

  A.2 Search text: select a section whose title contains this text, or a
  phrase with an annotation containing this text. May move to post-0.9.

  A.3 User profile and preferences will be merged under a single
  "preferences" dialog. Menus will be reorganized a little.

  A.4 Unused item behavior may be too restrictive; maybe all operations
  should be allowed in unused sections and with unused audio blocks except
  that they won't be exported or played when the whole book plays.

  A.5 The help file is badly outdated. Release notes are still a draft too.

  A.6 The transport bar buttons will be disabled when necessary, i.e. on
  the first section the "previous section" button will be disabled but if
  there is more than one section, the "next section" button will be enabled.

  A.7 The time display will allow input to directly go to a selected time
  in the book.


Appendix B - Known Issues
[NOTE: there are really many more than that!]

  B.1 Project audio is lost after export.


Appendix C - Changelog

  * New in Obi 0.8.3.0
    * Cleaned-up menu accelerator keys.
    * Added "Strips > Go to page".
    * Selection follows focus (when tabbing.)
    * Focus follows selection (useful for screen readers.)
    * Added "focus on annotation" (useful for screen readers too.)
    * Default file names allow more characters (e.g. Japanese.)
    * Deleting the text of annotation is the same as removing the
    annotation (no more warnings about empty annotations.)
    * Editing and removing annotations can be undone and modifies the
    project.

  * New in Obi 0.8.2.0
    * Fixed some keyboard navigation bugs (but splitter in project panel is
    still inacessible with keyboard.)
    * Help can be opened in external browser.

  * New in Obi 0.8.1.0
    * "TOC > Add section" changed to "TOC > Insert section".
    * Set/remove pages added, need to be written up by Julien.
    * Changed audio block display to say "Audio block 1 of 3" or "page 5".
    * Keyboard navigation in the strip manager (relies on screen reader)
    * Separated play and pause buttons in the transport bar, and switched
    stop and record buttons. Modified transport menu accordingly.
    * Installer installs shortcut and desktop icon.


Appendix D - TODO list

[ ] Colors in configuration file
[ ] Make unused blocks useful
[ ] Fix selection
[ ] Master playlist?
[ ] Fix record
[ ] Double click on phrase while playing
[ ] Double click on phrase (handled by project panel, not form)
[ ] Merge release notes with documentation (reference part)
[ ] Ask before creating shortcut/desktop icon in installer
[ ] Automate DirectX setup
[ ] Obi graphics in installer
[ ] Disabling transport bar buttons and menu items
[ ] Size of section strip
[ ] Size of section strip label (depend on font size)
[ ] Make root node an Obi node
[ ] Enforce single sample rate in project
[ ] Critical bugs/annoyances in the release notes
[ ] More single key shortcuts?
[ ] Go to next annotation (?) -> Go To annotation (similar to go to page)
[ ] Go to section node/strip
[ ] VU meter
[ ] FFWD/RWD
[ ] Bug when removing first section (when not the only top-level section?)
[ ] Use previous unused phrase as silence phrase for phrase detection
[ ] TouchedNode instead of ToggledNodeUseState in Project, etc.?
[ ] Warn that there were empty phrases in a read project.
