This is a temporary write up for transport bar which should be copied to main manual.
The write up contains description about transportbar buttons and other transport bar functions which are to be invoked through drop down menus and keyboard shortcuts.

There are two catagories of keyboard shortcuts:
1. Global Shortcuts: These keyboard shortcuts are globally available throughout the application no matter in which view  keyboard focus is.
2. Local keyboard shortcuts: These are keyboard shortcuts which are available in only some specific view. Currently these are mainly available in Strips View.
The term used for representing these strip view keyboard shortcut in this text will be
"SV shortcut".

Description of transport bar functions with respect to transport menu:

1. Play 
It has submenu as:
1.1. Play All:
It gives Play All command while starting playback from currently selected block in strip view or currently selected node in tree view with following rules:
1.1.1. If strip curser is selected, playback is started from starting of selected block or selected tree node and whole book is played. 
1.1.2. If there is Audio selection and cursor has a position marked inside phrase, playback is started from this cursor position and whole book is played. 
1.1.3. If nothing is selected, whole book starting from first phrase is played. 
1.1.4.If an audio block or tree node is selected ( without any
in phrase selection ), only the current audio block is played. 
1.5. If a part of audio is selected within an audio block, only this selected part
is played. 

Transport bar control: Play button
Global Keyboard shortcut: Control+Space.
SV shortcut: none.

1.2. Play Selection:
This plays selected blocks/phrases or selected audio. Currently multiple block selection is not available so currently playback is limited to single block.
Playback follows following rules:
1.2.1. It there is no cursor selection, playback is started from begining of block and current block is played.
1.2.2. If a time point inside a phrase is selected, currently selected block is played starting from this time point. 
1.2.3. If a part of audio inside a phrase is selected, only this selected part is played.

Transport bar control: None
Global Shortcut: Control+Shift+Space
SV shortcut: Space
Remark: If play All command with its playback rules come out to be completely sufficient, this command may be elimanated in future.


2. Pause: 
- It pauses both playback as well as recording ( which ever is active ). 
- Pause position and cursor position are synchronised with each other so pause position also acts as cursor position for operations like split and insert recording.
Transport bar control: Pause button
Keyboard shortcut: Space bar.

3. Stop: 
- It stops playback or recording which ever is active.
Transport bar control: Stop button
Keyboard shortcut: control + T 

4. Fast Play:
This increases playback rate for proof reading and rapid editting/navigation for power users.
It works both on the fly with playback and also off the fly.
Transport bar control: Fast Play combobox.

This menu item has submenu as:
4.1. Normal Speed:
It brings playbak rate back to normal playback rate
Global shortcut: Control+Shift+D
SV shortcut: d

4.2. Speed up:
This increases playback rate by one FastPlay combobox value. 
Global shortcut: Control+Shift+F
SV shortcut: F

4.3. Speed Down:
This decreases playback rate by one FastPlay combobox value.
Global shortcut: none.
SV shortcut: S

4.4. Normal Speed with elapse back:
This Moves back to normal playback rate with 1.5 seconds of rewind. This is helpfull in determining exact position for operations like splitting while  playing at higher speeds.
Global Shortcut: none
SV shortcut: E

Remark: Fast play is responsible for only playback speeds above normal playback speed.


5. Preview playback:
This provides a small preview playback while bringing cursor position back to current point after completing preview.
Transport bar control: none.

It includes following submenu:
5.1. Preview from current position:
provides 1.5 seconds of playback starting from current cursor position.
Global shortcut: Control+Alt+P
SV shortcut: V

5.2. Preview upto current position:
Provides playback of duration of 1.5 seconds starting from 1.5 seconds before current position so that playback ends at current position.
Global Shortcut: none
SV shortcut: X

5.3. Preview selected audio:
It provides playback of audio chumk lying between two audio mark points. 
Global Shortcut: none.
SV Shortcut: C

6. Rewind: 
It plays small  chunks of audio while jumping backward in time.
- Rewind continues across phrase boundaries.
Transport bar control: Rewind button

7. FastForward:
It plays small chunks of audio while  jumping forward in time.
 FastForward continues across phrase  boundaries.
Transport bar control: FastForward button

8. Record: 
This is responsible for live recording. It has submenu as follows:
8.1. Start Listening:
When clicked first time, This starts listening and displays input values of microphone in graphical peak meter as well in text peak meter. 
On clicking second time without stopping listening operation, recording is started.
Transport bar control: Record button 
Global shortcut: Control+R
SV shortcut: none

8.2. Start Recording
This starts recording directly without going through listening state.
Transport bar control: none
Global shortcut: Control+Shift+R
SV shortcut: none


8.3. Allow overwrite:
This is the flag which enables and disables destructive recording as follows:
8.3.1.  If it is unchecked, recording is done in append only or non-destructive mode i.e. a new recording is appended to selected block or filled in a null audio block without inserting or overwriting existing recordings.
8.3.2. If it is checked, destructive recording is allowed as follows:
8.3.2.1.  If selected block do not contain any audio e.g. empty page blocks, recording fills audio inside these blocks.
8.3.2.2.  If there is a single point in-phrase selection, recording splits the selected block at cursor position and inserts new blocks between two splitted blocks.
8.3.2.3.  If there is a part of audio selected  inside a phrase using  in-phrase Selection Start and in-phrase Selection End commands then the selected block is split in three blocks and the middle one is replaced by newly recorded blocks.

Pausing recording:
Recording can be paused at any time using pause button. When recording is paused, user can use playback to verify recording.
Recording will resume by pressing record button again ( no listening stage will be there while resuming paused recording ).


9. Navigation:
This is responsible for moving with the structure of book while playbak and recording and has submenus as:
9.1. Prev phrase:
Moves to previous phrase in playlist while playback as follows:
9.1.1. Moves to begining of current phrase if playback has crossed initial 2.5 seconds.
9.1.2. Moves to previous phrase if playback has not crossed initial 2.5 seconds of threshold.
 Does nothing while recording.
Transport bar control:  Previous phrase button.
Global shortcut: Alt+Left arrow.

9.2. prev section
Moves to previous section in playlist while playing.
Does nothing while recording.
Transport bar control: Previous section button.
Global shortrcut: Alt+Up arrow.

9.3. prev page
This moves to previous page in the playlist while playback.
Does nothing while  recording.
Transport bar control: Previous page button.
Global shortcut: 

9.4. Next phrase
While playback, moves to next phrase in playlist. 
While recording, marks a new phrase on the fly and starts recording in this new phrase.
Transport bar control: Next phrase button
Global shortcut: Alt+Right arrow.

9.5. Next section
While playback, Moves to next section in playlist.
While recording, creates a new section on the fly and starts recording in first phrase of this new section.
The rules for  creating new section is same as that of creating a new section in TOC view.
Transport bar control: Next Section button
Global shortcut: Alt+down arrow.

9.6. Next page 
While playback, moves to next page in playlist.
While recording, create a new phrase and mark custom page class on it on the fly with autonumbering i.e. increment of previous page number and "1" if there is no preceding phrase block.
and continues recording in this new page phrase.
Transport bar control: Next page button
Global shortcut: 

Other  transport bar features:
10. Custom class mark button:
While recording it is used for marking custom class on currently recording phrase on the fly. The default name used is "Custom".
It creats a new audio block and mark custom class on it.
These custom blocks can later on be reclassed.
In all other conditions, this button mark custom class on currently selected audio block.


11. Time display:
Transport bar has a time display which displays both playback as well as recording time.
11.1. Playback time.
The display of playback time is configurable with an adjusant combobox. The available options are:
11.1.1. Elapsed: This displays elapsed selection time.
11.1.2. Elapsed (total): This displays elapsed time with respect to whole book.
11.1.3. Remaining: This displays remaining time for current selection.
11.1.4. Remaining (Total): This displays remaining time with respect to whole book.

11.2. Recording time:
This displays time of recording since it was started i.e. recording session time.


12. Text Peak Meter:
This control displays numerical values for peak meter which can be captured by screenreader.
It has two textboxes for left and right channels. 
Keyboard shortcuts:
Focus Left channel value: Alt+l
Focus right channel value: Alt+i
The value displayed is relative to the peak value of audio with upper range of 0 db.

Whenever overload is reached,  the "OL" tag appears before numerical value of that particular channel.
This tag remains in text display of respective channel till reset button on text meter is pressed. 
Remark: reset button is not visible till  overload is reached.
